angular config loading (#1074)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-02-23-angular-async-config.md

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "Three ways to configure modules in your Angular app"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Three Ways to Configure Modules in Your Angular App"
```
title case here, sentence case for all the section headings

author: alisa-duncan
by: advocate
communities: [javascript]
description: "Learn how to add configuration to modules in Angular three different ways - from static, changing configs at build time, and to loading configurations at run-time."
tags: [javascript, typescript, angular]
tweets:
- "How do you handle your module configuration in #Angular apps? 🤔 We cover 3 ways to configure modules and when to use each method."
- "Needing to load your Okta config from an API in your #Angular app? Learn when to use run-time loading and how to add it to your Okta integration."
image: blog/angular-async-config/angular-async-config-social.jpg
type: awareness
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-angular-async-load-example
---

> Configurations are a part of a developer's life. Configuration data is information your app needs to run and may include tokens for third-party systems or settings you pass into libraries. There are different ways to load configuration data as part of application initialization in [Angular](https://angular.io/). Your requirements for configuration data might change based on needs. For example, you may have one unchanging configuration for your app, or you may need a different configuration based on the environment it runs on. We'll cover a few different ways to load configuration values and identify when you should use each method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configurations are part of a developer's life. Configuration data is information your app needs to run and may include tokens for third-party systems or settings you pass into libraries. There are different ways to load configuration data as part of application initialization in [Angular](https://angular.io/). Your requirements for configuration data might change based on needs. For example, you may have one unchanging configuration for your app, or you may need a different configuration based on the environment where the app is running. We'll cover a few different ways to load configuration values and identify when you should use each method.
```
removed the 'extra' article in opening sentence.  avoiding the redundancy/ambiguity in the 5th sentence.

> > We're covering specific use cases using Angular, so this post assumes you have some experience developing Angular apps. If you're interested in learning more about building your first Angular app, check out the [Angular Getting Started](https://angular.io/guide/what-is-angular) docs, or check out the [links to tutorials](#learn-more) that walk you through integrating Okta into Angular apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> We're covering specific use cases using Angular, so this post assumes you have some experience developing Angular apps. If you're interested in learning more about building your first Angular app, check out the [Angular Getting Started](https://angular.io/guide/what-is-angular) docs or the [links to tutorials](#learn-more) that walk you through integrating Okta into Angular apps.
```
conciseness

> In this post, we'll cover the following forms of configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we'll cover the following forms of configuration:
```
punctuation

* defining configuration directly in code
* defining configuration for different environments
* loading configuration data via an API call

> We'll show examples, including how to integrate with Okta, for each method. We'll also identify when to use each technique and what to watch out for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll show examples, including how to integrate with Okta, for each method. Also, we'll identify when to use each technique and what to watch out for.
```
breaks up the repetition of "we'll" to open consecutive sentences. the variety makes for an easier read.

{% include toc.md %}

## Set up Angular and Okta in a sample project

> We'll first set up the base project and Okta resources so you can follow along with the post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we'll set up the base project and Okta resources so you can follow along with the post.
```
more variation in lieu of "We'll"

> We'll use an Angular v9 app in the code sample to keep things on an even playing field and avoid any new Angular feature funny-business. All the outlined methods also apply to the current version, version 13.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To keep things on an even playing field and avoid any new Angular feature funny-business, we'll use an Angular v9 app in the code sample. All the outlined methods also apply to the current version, Angular v13.
```
as above :)

### Create the Angular app

You'll need a recent version of [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Create the Angular v9 app with routing and standard CSS for styling by running the following command:

```shell
npx @angular/cli@9 new async-load --routing --style=css
```

### Create the Okta application

Let's create the Okta resource to have the configuration values we need to integrate. 

{% include setup/cli.md type="spa" framework="Angular" loginRedirectUri="http://localhost:4200/login/callback" logoutRedirectUri="http://localhost:4200" %}

We'll need the Okta Angular and Okta Auth JS libraries. Add them to your application by running the following command.

```shell
npm install @okta/okta-angular@5.1 @okta/okta-auth-js@6.0
```

> This post won't walk you through setting up sign-in and sign-out; we're interested only in setting up the configuration. If the Angular app runs without errors, the configuration aspect is correct. Try excluding `issuer` or don't replace the `{yourOktaDomain}` with the values you got back from the Okta CLI, and you'll see the types of errors we're trying to avoid. The sample code repo does have sign-in and sign-out integrated so you can see authentication working all the way through.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post won't walk you through setting up sign-in and sign-out; we're interested only in setting up the configuration. If the Angular app runs without errors, the configuration aspect is correct. To see the types of errors we're trying to avoid, try excluding `issuer` or don't replace the `{yourOktaDomain}` with the values you got back from the Okta CLI. The sample code repo does have sign-in and sign-out integrated so you can see authentication working all the way through.
```
clarity

## Define configuration in code

> Defining the configuration directly in the code when your configuration is static is the most straightforward way to configure libraries. You'd define the configuration data in the `AppModule` or a feature module in this method. Examples of this method might look something like defining the configuration for routes and passing it into the `RouterModule`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your configuration is static is the most straightforward way to configure libraries is to define the configuration directly in the code. In this method, you'd define the configuration data in the `AppModule` or in a feature module. Examples of this method might look something like defining the configuration for routes and passing it into the `RouterModule`:
```
clarity and directness

```ts
const routes: Routes = [
  { path: 'profile', component: ProfileComponent }
];

@NgModule({
  declarations: [ AppComponent, ProfileComponent ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    RouterModule.forRoot(routes)
  ],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

> You might be surprised to see routing as an example of defining configuration directly in code but passing in application-wide configuration into a module's [`forRoot()` static method](https://angular.io/guide/ngmodule-faq#what-is-the-forroot-method) is precisely that. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might be surprised to see routing as an example of defining configuration directly in code.  And yet, when you pass application-wide configuration into a module's [`forRoot()` static method](https://angular.io/guide/ngmodule-faq#what-is-the-forroot-method) that's precisely what you're doing. 
```
clarifying. Does the meaning work after changing "pass in"  -> "pass application-wide configuration into" ? pls reject the suggestion if the meaning is wrong.

If you've followed many of our code examples and blog posts to integrate Okta into Angular apps, you've followed a similar pattern where configuration is defined directly in the application. 

Your configuration code looks something like this:

```ts
import { OktaAuthModule, OKTA_CONFIG } from '@okta/okta-angular';
import { OktaAuth } from '@okta/okta-auth-js';

const oktaAuth = new OktaAuth({
  issuer: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default',
  clientId: '{yourClientId', 
  redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback'
});

@NgModule({
  declarations: [ AppComponent, ProfileComponent ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    AppRoutingModule,
    OktaAuthModule
  ],
  providers: [
    { provide: OKTA_CONFIG, useValue: { oktaAuth } }
  ],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

**Summary**

The most straightforward way to add configuration to your app is when the configuration does not change based on external factors.

> **When to use**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When to *define configuration in code*:**
```
context for the reader when they are scanning...

> * As often as you can since it's the easiest way to configure things

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use as often as you can since it's the easiest way to configure things.
```

> **Best for**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Best use cases:**
```
context for scannability

* Static app configurations
* Configuring third-party libraries
* Quick tests

**Watch out for**

* Configuration that involves private keys or tokens

## Configuration that changes by environment

> Angular has a built-in way to support per environment differences using the `environments/environment.*.ts` files. When serving locally, Angular CLI uses the values in `environments/environment.ts`, and when you build for prod, Angular CLI substitutes `environment.prod.ts` instead. You can see this file substitution defined in the `angular.json` build configuration. And if you have more environments to support, you can customize the build configuration to suit your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular has a built-in way to support per-environment differences using the `environments/environment.*.ts` files. When serving locally, Angular CLI uses the values in `environments/environment.ts`, and when you build for production, Angular CLI substitutes `environment.prod.ts` instead. You can see this file substitution defined in the `angular.json` build configuration. And if you have more environments to support, you can customize the build configuration to suit your needs.
```
small tweaks for clarity. Does everyone understand "prod" to mean "production"? (maybe it's not necessary, your call)

The environment files are helpful when you have different configurations you want to support at build time. Some examples include enabling user analytics only on prod environments or defining the API endpoints your QA environment calls.

> An example of configuration that changes by environment already built into your app is in `src/main.ts`. Here you see the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/main.ts` is an example of a configuration that changes based on the environment already built into your app. Here you see the following: 
```
clarity, but does this still make sense?

Author: How about 
> `src/main.ts` contains an example of a configuration that changes based on the environment already built into your app.

I'll go ahead with this for now and can edit per your review suggestions.

Reviewer: that looks great Alisa, thanks for refining - I think it's easier to read in active voice.

In `src/environments/environment.ts`, add the Okta auth configuration like this.

```ts
export const environment = {
  production: false,
  authConfig: {
    issuer: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default',
    clientId: '{yourClientId}'
  }
};
```

In `src/environments/environment.prod.ts`, you'll add the same `authConfig` properties with values that match your prod environment.

You'll use the environment file to initialize the `OktaAuthModule` in the `AppModule` like this.

```ts
import { OktaAuthModule, OKTA_CONFIG } from '@okta/okta-angular';
import { OktaAuth } from '@okta/okta-auth-js';
import { environment } from '../environments/environment.ts';

const oktaAuth = new OktaAuth({
  ...environment.authConfig,
  redirectUri: window.location.orgin + '/login/callback'
});

@NgModule({
  declarations: [ AppComponent, ProfileComponent ],
  imports: [ BrowserModule, AppRoutingModule, OktaAuthModule ],
  providers: [
    { provide: OKTA_CONFIG, useValue: { oktaAuth }}
  ],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

**Summary**

Customizing environment files is the Angular recommended method to inject values during build time.

> **When to use**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When to use *configuration that changes by environment* **
```
added markdown to italicize the use case, and adding more context for scannability

* You have different configuration values based on build output

> **Best for**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Best use cases**
```
scannability

* Devmode - keep apps served locally from doing things only prod apps should do 
* Multiple staging environment systems

**Watch out for**

* Configuration that involves private keys or tokens

> * Run your build for all the different environments when testing changes you make. You don't want to miss adding a property and potentially get a runtime error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Run your build for all your different environments when testing changes you make. You don't want to miss adding a property and potentially get a runtime error.
```
is this more precise?

Author: How about 
> Run the build for each environment to test changes you make. You don't want to miss adding a property and potentially get a runtime error.

I'll go with this for now and open to review suggestions

Reviewer: 👍

## Loading configurations from external APIs

> Sometimes you need to load configuration at runtime. Doing so makes sense if you use release promotion style deployments - creating a build for a staging/pre-production environment and promoting the same build to production after verification. You don't want to create a new build, but what if your staging and production environments require different configurations? Loading configuration from an external API is handy in scenarios like these.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you need to load configuration at runtime. This makes sense if you use release promotion style deployments - creating a build for a staging/pre-production environment and promoting the same build to production after verification. You don't want to create a new build, but what if your staging and production environments require different configurations? Loading configuration from an external API is handy in scenarios like these.
```
simplify

> I'll focus only on the Okta example for this configuration method to keep this post from getting too heavy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To keep things simple for this *external API* configuration method, I'll focus only on the Okta example. 
```
to keep the sentence from getting too heavy... ;-)

> In this example, we'll look at `src/main.ts` where we bootstrap the Angular application. When you need configuration before the application loads, we can take advantage of `platformBrowserDynamic()` platform injector's `extraProviders` functionality to [provide platform providers](https://angular.io/guide/hierarchical-dependency-injection#platform-injector).

Reviewer: is there another way to say "provide platform providers"  that avoids the redundancy and still makes sense? Could you say "offers platform providers" or "creates platform providers"?

Author: Yep, I agree it's awkward. It's how Angular phrases this as well (since the property name for both the module and object in the providers array is `providers` and `provide`. so much providing.

What if I split it into 2 sentences like this? I'll put this in for now and am open to edits per your suggestion (or using one of your original suggestions in one sentence)

> In this example, we'll look at `src/main.ts` where we bootstrap the Angular application. When you need configuration before the application loads, we can take advantage of `platformBrowserDynamic()` platform injector's `extraProviders` functionality. The `extraProviders` allows us to [provide platform providers](https://angular.io/guide/hierarchical-dependency-injection#platform-injector), much in the same way we can provide application-wide providers in the `AppModule`.

Reviewer: wfm

> Since we need to make the server call to get the configuration before we have a full Angular application context, we need to use Web APIs to call the API. Then we can configure the provider for Okta's `OKTA_CONFIG` injection token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we need to make the server call to get the configuration before we have a full Angular application context, we'll use Web APIs to call the API. Then we can configure the provider for Okta's `OKTA_CONFIG` injection token.
```
simplify

> For a configuration API call response that looks like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a configuration API call response that looks like this: 
```

```json
{
  issuer: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default',
  clientId: '{yourClientId}', 
  redirectUri: '{correctHostForTheEnvironment}/login/callback'
}
```

> The code in your `src/main.ts` changes to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
...the code in your `src/main.ts` changes to:
```
adds continuity to your demo code

```ts
import { enableProdMode } from '@angular/core';
import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';

import { AppModule } from './app/app.module';
import { environment } from './environments/environment';
import { OKTA_CONFIG } from '@okta/okta-angular';
import { OktaAuth } from '@okta/okta-auth-js';

if (environment.production) {
  enableProdMode();
}

fetch('http://{yourApiUri}/config').then(async res => {
  const authConfig = await res.json();

  platformBrowserDynamic([
    { provide: OKTA_CONFIG, useValue: {oktaAuth: new OktaAuth(authConfig)}}
  ]).bootstrapModule(AppModule)
    .catch(err => console.error(err));
});
```

> Then your `AppModule` only needs to import `OktaAuthModule` since you already provided the `OKTA_CONFIG` injection token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then your `AppModule` only needs to import `OktaAuthModule` since you've already provided the `OKTA_CONFIG` injection token.
```
past perfect tense - useful for series of steps that take place in a sequence in the past...

> If you need to create the callback URI programmatically or if you need to use the configuration in multiple places, you can store the configuration in the app instead. The minimum we need is a class that holds the config, which we will show in the example, but you can also wrap the config in a service if your needs are more involved than what we show here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to create the callback URI programmatically or if you need to use the configuration in multiple places, you can store the configuration in the app instead. The minimum we need is a class that holds the config, which we will show in the example. You can wrap the config in a service if your needs are more involved than what we'll show here.
```
breaks up a complex sentence.

> You'll add a new file and create an interface that matches the response and a class to hold the config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll add a new file and create an interface that matches the response, as well as a class to hold the config:
```
clarity

  issuer: string;
  clientId: string;
}

export class OktaAuthConfig {
  constructor(public config: AuthConfig) { }
}
```

Edit the `src/main.ts` to provide the `OktaAuthConfig` class instead

```ts
import { OktaAuthConfig } from './app/auth-config';

fetch('http://{yourApiUri}/config').then(async res => {
  const authConfig = new OktaAuthConfig(await res.json());

  platformBrowserDynamic([
    { provide: OktaAuthConfig, useValue: authConfig }
  ]).bootstrapModule(AppModule)
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
})
```

In the `AppModule` you can provide the `OKTA_CONFIG` needed to integrate with Okta by accessing `OktaAuthConfig`:

```ts
@NgModule({
  declarations: [ AppComponent, ProfileComponent ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    AppRoutingModule,
    OktaAuthModule
  ],
  providers: [
    {
      provide: OKTA_CONFIG,
      deps: [OktaAuthConfig],
      useFactory: (oktaConfig: OktaAuthConfig) => ({
        oktaAuth: new OktaAuth({
          ...oktaConfig.config,
          redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback'
        })
      })
    }
  ]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

You can now load a config from an API and use the app's location.

> You might be asking yourself, "Isn't there an `APP_INITIALIZER` token or something we can use instead"? Well, yes, there is an [`APP_INITIALIZER` token](https://angular.io/api/core/APP_INITIALIZER) for executing initialization functions that complete before application initialization completes, but in our case, we need the auth configuration _in order_ to initialize. So, we need to finish loading the configuration before initializing the app, which we can do when bootstrapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might be asking yourself, "Isn't there an `APP_INITIALIZER` token or something we can use instead"? Well, yes, there is an [`APP_INITIALIZER` token](https://angular.io/api/core/APP_INITIALIZER) for executing initialization functions that complete before application initialization completes! However, in our case, we need the auth configuration _in order_ to initialize. So, we need to finish loading the configuration before initializing the app, which we can do when bootstrapping.
```
breaking into 2 sentences for readability

**Summary**

Load configuration from an API and provide the config to the application. Depending on your needs, the configuration loading may occur during bootstrapping or via `APP_INITIALIZER`.

**When to use**

* You want the configuration to load at runtime
* Your configuration properties include private information that you don't want to commit to source control

> **Best for**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Best use cases**
```
scannability

* You have different configurations for staging and prod and use release-promotion style deployment processes
* Your configuration changes frequently or often enough where building and deploying the app is not feasible

**Watch out for**

> * Configuration errors or network blips - Your app **will not run** since it's dependent on the external API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configuration errors or network blips - your app **will not run** since it's dependent on the external API.
```
punctuation - this works as one sentence.

> * Potentially harder to verify and test since configuration may change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Potentially harder to verify and test since configuration may change.
```
punctuation

## Learn more

> I hope this post was helpful as you consider how to integrate Okta into your Angular app. You can check out the [sample code for loading configurations from an external server](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-angular-async-load-example), along with a minimal Express API to simulate the config loading. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I hope this post has been helpful as you consider how to integrate Okta into your Angular app. You can check out the [sample code for loading configurations from an external server](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-angular-async-load-example), along with a minimal Express API to simulate the config loading. 
```
tense alignment: past perfect "has been"/ or you could just use "is"...

To keep things simple for this *external API* configuration method, I'll focus only on the Okta example. 

In this example, we'll look at `src/main.ts` where we bootstrap the Angular application. When you need configuration before the application loads, we can take advantage of `platformBrowserDynamic()` platform injector's `extraProviders` functionality. The `extraProviders` allows us to [provide platform providers](https://angular.io/guide/hierarchical-dependency-injection#platform-injector), much in the same way we can provide application-wide providers in the `AppModule`.

Since we need to make the server call to get the configuration before we have a full Angular application context, we use Web APIs to call the API. Then we can configure the provider for Okta's `OKTA_CONFIG` injection token.

For a configuration API call response that looks like this: 

> ```json

Reviewer 2: The syntax highlighting looks strange on this? Maybe it's because it wants everything in double-quotes?

```json
{
  "issuer": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default",
  "clientId": "{yourClientId}",
  "redirectUri": "{correctHostForTheEnvironment}/login/callback"
}

```

Author: Of course, makes perfect sense since I specified `json` syntax. Thanks for the catch!

  issuer: string;
  clientId: string;
}

export class OktaAuthConfig {
  constructor(public config: AuthConfig) { }
}
```

Edit the `src/main.ts` to provide the `OktaAuthConfig` class instead

```ts
import { OktaAuthConfig } from './app/auth-config';

fetch('http://{yourApiUri}/config').then(async res => {
  const authConfig = new OktaAuthConfig(await res.json());

  platformBrowserDynamic([
    { provide: OktaAuthConfig, useValue: authConfig }
  ]).bootstrapModule(AppModule)
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
})
```

In the `AppModule` you can provide the `OKTA_CONFIG` needed to integrate with Okta by accessing `OktaAuthConfig`:

```ts
@NgModule({
  declarations: [ AppComponent, ProfileComponent ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    AppRoutingModule,
    OktaAuthModule
  ],
  providers: [
    {
      provide: OKTA_CONFIG,
      deps: [OktaAuthConfig],
      useFactory: (oktaConfig: OktaAuthConfig) => ({
        oktaAuth: new OktaAuth({
          ...oktaConfig.config,
          redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback'
        })
      })
    }
  ]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

You can now load a config from an API and use the app's location.

> You might be asking yourself, "Isn't there an `APP_INITIALIZER` token or something we can use instead"? Well, yes, there is an [`APP_INITIALIZER` token](https://angular.io/api/core/APP_INITIALIZER) for executing initialization functions that complete before application initialization completes. However, in our case, we need the auth configuration _in order_ to initialize. So, we need to finish loading the configuration before initializing the app, which we can do when bootstrapping.

Reviewer 2: This is how I do it in Ionic with Angular: 

APP_INITIALIZER: https://github.com/oktadev/schematics/blob/main/src/add-auth/ionic/angular/src/app/auth/auth.module.ts#L42

factory: https://github.com/oktadev/schematics/blob/main/src/add-auth/index.ts#L434

**Summary of _loading configuration from an external API_:**

Load configuration from an API and provide the config to the application. Depending on your needs, the configuration loading may occur during bootstrapping or via `APP_INITIALIZER`.

**When to use:**

* You want the configuration to load at runtime instead of being baked into the code
* Your configuration properties include private information that you don't want to commit to source control

**Best use cases:**

* You have different configurations for staging and prod and use release-promotion style deployment processes
* Your configuration changes frequently or often enough where building and deploying the app is not feasible

**Watch out for:**

* Configuration errors or network blips - your app **will not run** since it's dependent on the external API.
* Potentially harder to verify and test since configuration may change.

> ## Learn more

Reviewer 2: I would add some keywords in here like "Learn more about Angular"

In this post, we'll cover the following forms of configuration:
* defining configuration directly in code
* defining configuration for different environments
* loading configuration data via an API call

We'll show examples, including how to integrate with Okta, for each method. Also, we'll identify when to use each technique and what to watch out for.

{% include toc.md %}

## Set up Angular and Okta in a sample project

First we'll set up the base project and Okta resources so you can follow along with the post.

To keep things on an even playing field and avoid any new Angular feature funny-business, I'll use an Angular v9 app in the code sample. All the outlined methods apply from Angular v7 to the current version, Angular v13.
### Create the Angular app

You'll need a version of [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) that works for the Angular app version you want to create. 

I'm using Node v14.18.1 and npm v6.14.15 to create an Angular v9 app, but you can create the app for your favorite Angular v7+ version.

> Use your globally installed Angular CLI to create an Angular app with routing and standard CSS for styling by running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use your globally installed Angular CLI to create an Angular app with routing and standard CSS for styling by running:
```
consistent punctuation

**Summary of _loading configuration from an external API_:**

Load configuration from an API and provide the config to the application. Depending on your needs, the configuration loading may occur during bootstrapping or via `APP_INITIALIZER`.

**When to use:**

* You want the configuration to load at runtime instead of being baked into the code
* Your configuration properties include private information that you don't want to commit to source control

**Best use cases:**

* You have different configurations for staging and prod and use release-promotion style deployment processes
* Your configuration changes frequently or often enough where building and deploying the app is not feasible

**Watch out for:**

* Configuration errors or network blips - your app **will not run** since it's dependent on the external API.

> * Anything that can decrease application load speed such as overly large configuration response, calling too many endpoints, or slow server response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anything that can decrease application load speed such as overly large configuration response, calling too many endpoints, or slow server response.
```
add period. consistent punctuation

> * Potentially harder to verify and test since configuration may change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Potential challenges with verification and testing, since configuration may change.
```
consistency of bullet format. Each bullet should form a complete sentence with "Watch out for:..." when you read it aloud in your head...
